---
layout: post
title: "Before You Even Open Your Mouth"
date:   2016-10-16 11:34:25
description: For Optimal Workshop's ebook _How to conduct great user interviews_ I contributed a chapter on reading the wider environment around your research focus
tags: [POV, UX, Interviews]
---
For Optimal Workshop's ebook _How to conduct great user interviews_ I contributed a chapter on reading the wider environment around your research focus. [Download the ebook](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ZDBWUfrbxuYBpEGdJJbscbVh3_lNzY60/view?usp=sharing) to read my chapter, _Before you even open your mouth_, or read it here:

*The phone wouldn’t stop ringing, and customers kept streaming in the door. The front desk was a hotbed of activity, and Laura was multitasking with aplomb.*

As part of a study during my time as research manager at MailChimp, I visited a handful of local customers from various industries. That day, I sat alongside Laura at the fitness studio where she "did a bit of everything." I was there to observe and ask questions along the way, but the questions proved to be far less enlightening than what I observed.

Laura managed the email marketing duties at the fitness studio, but that was clearly not her primary responsibility. Within a few minutes of my arrival, I watched as Laura checked in arriving studio members, provided information to prospective members, answered the phone, clocked in employees, replied to emails, refilled a water dispenser, and worked on a marketing email. Each task interrupted the next as Laura truly did a bit of everything.

In survey responses and on calls, customers had described themselves as “doing everything,” or something akin to a “jack of all trades.” But until watching Laura work, I hadn’t truly understood what this could mean. I was there to research how customers use MailChimp, but MailChimp was one of hundreds of things competing for my customer’s attention.

This simple insight changed how we approached our product research. We shifted emphasis from the product to the people, and leaned heavily on their ecosystems of teammates, apps, and habits. It’s a practice I continue as I study writers, editors, and audiences for Vox Media.

After countless interviews, I’ve learned that before you even open your mouth, you can gather hundreds of research insights via detailed attention to the context around your interview participant. It’s normal to want to jump right into a conversation, but the small details add up to big tells. Here’s where to start:

### The mindset
As much as possible, **observe and listen** to everything happening around you. (If it helps, pretend you’re Sherlock Holmes, piecing together the mystery of your interview participant.) Make note of everything you can as soon as possible—I record snap observations in Evernote and take photos.

### The sights
*The office was gigantic—it felt as though we walked a mile to get to the conference room. Everyone worked out in the open, yet the space felt peaceful. Some colleagues spoke softly to each other in front of their computers, while others donned headphones and worked independently. As we passed folks in the hallways, everyone said hello and smiled.*

What does work look like for your participant? Capture the details that allow you to paint a picture like that above. Those details ground your research and make it both relatable and readable to those who weren’t along for the ride.

Note what work looks like—in cubicles, in an open space, behind closed doors. Can you deduce anything by who sits where, or how they sit? You can often determine your participant’s level of authority by where she sits. This small detail could signify who in an organization is authorized to make decisions (like whether or not to buy or use your product!).

### The sounds
*The music was loud, but not overly so. All five of the workers in the office were able to hold conversations over the music, and often about the music. Which made sense, as this was a public relations firm for musicians and record labels.*

What you hear indicates a great deal about company culture and work habits—crucial bits of information that help you determine how (or if) your product fits in. How does the volume of conversation or music impact concentration and collaboration? Is the space overrun with loud chatter, ping pong tournaments, and incessant music? Are colleagues concentrating on assignments or quietly discussing work? 

In the case of the public relations firm above, everyone collaborated—an important observation when considering product features and who might use them!

### The tech
*The wait for the page to load seemed interminable. The time between each click and a response from the website stretched far longer than was comfortable. I was watching how this customer used our software, yet I was distracted by the latency of the hardware. This organization ran on donated equipment, and while the computer wasn’t new, it worked.*

It’s quite easy to become accustomed to the latest and greatest, to the point that we forget that not everyone works on shiny new Apple MacBooks. Sometimes a visit with a customer also serves as a reminder—the monitors and computer systems we’ve long since forgotten might serve as the backbone for your participant’s organization. 

Take note of the devices your participant uses—and not just their computers. Is this office phone-centric? Do you see a (gasp) fax machine? Details about devices and technology provide you and your team with additional context about your participant’s day-to-day.

### The atmosphere
*Scott Pioli was the recently-hired general manager for the Kansas City Chiefs, a team in the National Football League. One day, [Pioli saw a candy bar wrapper](http://www.kansascity.com/news/special-reports/article300461/Arrowhead-anxiety-Turnover-off-the-field-causes-concern.html) on the floor in the stairway of the team’s headquarters. He was furious and called a meeting. To Pioli, littering (or ignoring litter) at work signified a real problem with workplace respect and morale. To his employees, this attention to detail was either refreshing or overbearing, depending on who was asked.*

A piece of trash on the ground might mean nothing, or it could be a sign of a larger morale issue. Look for clues embedded within the office atmosphere—does the workplace seem tidy? Are the restrooms maintained? Is the kitchen a mess? Organizations are comprised of people, and how those people treat their workplace speaks volumes.

### A Practice of Observing
The sights and sounds you capture add color, depth, and detail to your interview, which can be used to effectively design and market the right products to the right audience. It’s a practice that top companies like Ikea and Lego perform to great success—both companies have incorporated home visits and observations into their respective research arsenals to refine their product lines and how they display said products.

By observing—and documenting—everything, you’re able to flesh out the interview with all-important details that ground your findings in context.